## ENG 4EX3 | Midterm Reflection

Jacob Gordon | 400071013 | `gordoj7@mcmaster.ca`

​	Looking back on the semester, I'm proud of the progress that our team has made on our project. Given the circumstances with the year, I'm happy that we've been able to progress at all. Our team has definitely been lucky that the majority of our work centres around computers, allowing us all to work from home. We've been able to establish a consistent working schedule and complete issues and push code to a GitHub repository. We've also setup a system for documentation and collaboration that's tried and true in industry for efficiency: agile development. However, with all of that being said, the progress that we've made over the past term has been slower than expected, with time management being a large issue for members of the team, especially myself.

​	The past year has certainly changed the way that we all work. A year ago I was on co-op when work from home changed to the norm and it was quite an adjustment. Reflecting on the experiences from the work place, I worked with out project manager to implement some strategies for our team on the McMaster AI Society to manage working apart. We implemented the system that many of us had used on co-op - agile software development, in order to give our members more flexibility in their work. Every 2 weeks one get a set of tasks, and the team meet once a week to discuss status, with open channels of communication in an MS Teams channel. At first this worked very well, and we were able to make a lot of progress, but once classes started to get busy, progress slowed. We had underestimated just how busy our team could get given a full course load of online classes.

​	Reviewing the meetings and the work contributed, I noticed that the pattern we were likely missing was the collaborative benefits from working in a team. We needed more accountability for work completed, and more support from other team members in areas where we were not as confident. The times where we were most able to get work completed were when we had group calls. I benefited a lot from working independently on my own tasks, and also being able to ask in real-time about issues that came up. Moving forward in the semester I'll be pushing to work more collaboratively like this, as its been the most efficient for our team given the unique circumstances of working in a team at a distance.

​	In our most recent meeting, the team agreed that this sort of working session meeting would be best for us and in the future will be put into the team schedule. Overall structure of the agile software life-cycle worked for us, but there was a variable we didn't consider when mapping the system from our co-ops. What we overlooked was the amount of time dedicated to the project, and the synchronicity of it. In industry, software teams work 9-5 , with everyone more or less in sync. However for us as a student team, our contributions are much more sporadic because of varying class schedules. This added friction to our work structure, with the need to sync up all of our asynchronous work. Regularly working in group calls, even just in pairs of two, increases accountability and engagement in the work, but also makes it less boring, more enjoyable, and easier to get through. We had initially assumed that allowing our team to work as independently as possible would be most efficiently, but pair work has proved more useful in practice.

​	Moving forward into 2021, I'm very optimistic about the progress of our team, and following the lessons learned from our initial semester of work. I feel that we're prepared to work more efficiently and effectively, and I'm looking forward to what the semester holds.

