## Engineer 3CX3

## Mini-Reflection 2 | Technological Stewardship

Jacob Gordon | 400071013 | gordoj7

### Important Aspects of the Experience

​	I'm currently in the midst of applying to a masters of computer science and with this year being the last of my undergrad, I've chosen a path that will have me researching and developing technology. This week in the workshop, the themes of technology's impact on society were very relevant. In particular, the responsibility inherent in science and engineering in particular resonated with me. The  most impactful parts of the workshop for me were the discussions on the most influential technology, the discussion exercise around the impact of the automobile on society, and lastly the exercise where the principles we'd learned were applied to the example of self driving cars.

With the discussion on influential technologies, it became more clear to me that there are many ways in which a technology can impact a society, and that because of that there are many different dimensions by which a technology can be assessed and compared between one another. Hearing the ways that my peers would discuss the 4 technologies revealed that there are many different ways that a technology can provide value to a society, and that is is subjective which way is *better* without quantifying it. It was really insightful to hear people's opinions regarding why boats were more influential that cars, or the internet. This leads into the next activity, as when one knows that the multiplicity of ways technology can be valued by a society, one can understand this is because of various impacts on the society that created it. 

With the case study of the car, it was helpful to look at a specific technology and analyse if it really provides more harm than good for the overall society. This is something oft overlooked in engineering, where often a problem is solved for its own sake. Many engineers enjoy the process of solving a problem often without full consideration on the impact on society as a whole.

Particularly interesting to me because of my background in AI was the discussion surrounding autonomous vehicles. This activity helped to me to better understand the *Principles of Technological Stewardship* as it applied it to a context that I was familiar with, and allowed me to understand them in a more concrete way. The emphasis on the ethical considerations inherent to engineering resonated with me, and was a key take away from the experience. Stewardship needs to be baked into the modern engineering process and workflow from ideation to production, if we want to build a world where we carefully consider the impact of technology on our society. 

### Connection to Academic Theory

​	The largest conference in artificial intelligence, ***NeurIPS***, recently adopted a mandatory section in all papers submitted to the conference called the **Impact Statement**. It's aim was to have machine learning researchers to consider and comment on the potential far reaching affects of their research on the broader society. In the words of the organisers, the broader impact statement "[includes] ethical aspects and future societal consequences. Authors should take care to discuss positive and negative outcomes" (NeurIPS 2020). Its clear that the scientific community is recognising the paradigm shift mentioned in the workshop, and is making efforts to push ethical considerations of technologies in a proactive way, before publication. This would align with  the Take Responsibility, Advancing Understanding, and Deliberate Values principles that were discussed. The academic community is recognising its responsibility with the importance of their work, working to foster dialogue in communities and proactively providing pros and cons of the technology along with the technology, and demonstrating that ethical work is a core value by making is a mandatory section for all papers. As the largest conference, the ***NeurIPS*** community is using their position and power responsible to advocate for ethical scientific progress, illustrating their stewardship for technology.

https://nips.cc/Conferences/2020/PaperInformation/NeurIPS-FAQ

​	To connect further with an academic machine learning context, the consideration of a technology's impact drew parallels for me to the selection of a objective function for optimizing a problem. In certain situations, there are unforeseen consequences, and even if you select your object with clear and valid means, there can still be uncontrolled variables in the environment that lead to a completely unforeseen result. This is true for reinforcement learning problems, e.g. training a bot to win a race, as much for an engineering designing a tool for society. In the former case, if a computer agent is programmed to maximize score and score only, it could just collect powerups and not even finish one lap of the race ([here is this example from OpenAI](https://youtu.be/tlOIHko8ySg)). If an engineer is not considerate of all the factors of their innovation, it could end up occupying a niche that wasn't intended with adverse consequences. 

### Planning and Future Practices

​	In my role as Co President of the McMaster AI Society, I work with the projects team division both from an engineering perspective and logistics perspective. Our aim is to collaborate with academia and industry to provide hands on engineering opportunities for our members. Following this workshop, considerations should be put into place regarding the impact of the technology created. Moving forward, the principles discussed in the workshop for technological stewardship will form a basis for a conversation on ethical development of these tools within the context of our student society. This conversations have happened on a case by case basis, but with the insights from this workshop it is clear to me that structuring the work process to support the principles is a necessity.  Working with our team to form a sustainable policy on technology stewardship is a must. In the past we have made ethical calls in terms on censoring potentially identifying user data,  moving away from facial recognition projects, working with certain companies, but it is clear that a specific policy should be adopted and a framework created to best serve the idea of stewardship, and to foster discussions surrounding technological stewardship within our student society.

### Why did I choose the two categories

In my position with the McMaster AI Society, the technology I interact with most often is machine learning and statistical learning. From my perspective, these are among the most impactful technologies that are actively being researched and developed. I chose these two areas to reflect on, as the academic world of machine learning research is one that I am increasingly becoming apart of and pursing with applications to graduate school. Connecting the lessons from the workshop to future contexts like that are helpful for me to understand where I will be going. The controversy surrounding the impact statement becoming a mandatory field in the paper was one I remember disagreeing with specifically because of the importance in checking technology's usefulness to society, and this workshop built on those ideas for me.

I chose the planning and future practices, as this workshop was very applicable to the work being done in my student society, and implemented a framework that supports the principles from the workshop would be incredibly valueable. I joined this class to learn ways to improve and grow our society, and so taking key aspects from workshops and translating them to that context is a priority for me.