## Engineer 3CX3

## Mini-Reflection 3 | Leadership

Jacob Gordon | 400071013 | gordoj7

### Important Aspects of the Experience

​	In this workshop, the exercises were incredibly helpful for me to gain a better understanding of the subjectivity of leadership qualities, and that leadership exists across several dimensions. The exercises were particularly helpful. Hearing how my peers would classify a leader and hearing unique perspectives and seeing the differences in our understanding showed that leadership isn't a universal idea; there is nuance to the understanding of what a leader is and can be. The way that the workshop was structured helped facilitate that learning for me. Firstly starting with the reflection and sharing of the core personal values, and then leading into a discuss, it was clear to see that to some capacity the understanding of leadership is personal. How a person aligns themselves to their personal values, and how well others do colours one's understanding of the idea of leadership. Different leaders may be optimising for different values in a team, and when these values clash is a source of conflict, but this conflict can be avoided by working together to incorporate the values of the team holistically. Getting everyone on the same page can resolve the issue. 

​	The other exercise that I found most informative during the workshop, was the assessment of other leaders' development. It was very interesting discussing with my peers what makes an individual dependent or interdependent, and to map the textual descriptions to the leadership model. It isn't as clear cut and as objective as I thought, there is room for nuance in people's understanding of what a leader is. Our discussions showed this, and echoed some of the earlier discussion regarding the dimensional of leadership. What was incredibly effective at showing this, and what really drove home the point for me was the graphs showing the frequency of ratings for each of the 6 example leaders. While the answers were very similar, they formed a bell curve around the area, which showed variance in the rankings and opinions of leadership. While we can formulate a model, there is subjectivity in how real world experiences are mapped to it, and there are differences in what people value in leadership. Leadership can mean different things to different people, and it requires tailoring to a specific team through the techniques discussed in the workshop. Like Aristotle said about excellence, leadership , then, is not an act, but a habit. It isn't a singular act that can be repeated across context, it is a skill that must continuously be improved and reflected on.

### Personal Thoughts and Feelings

​	Leadership has been a skillset that has been promoted to me since I was young; one wants to be a leader, not a follower, is an oft repeated thing to children. Even moreso is the phrase, "If all your friends jumped off a bridge, would you too?". Leadership is a per tenant skill from childhood, and something I've been continuing looking to improve on since around the same time. While their is consistency with the value of leadership, there is often little consistency in advise surrounding it. What was incredibly useful at this workshop was that it provided a comprehensive framework for understanding one's leadership identity within a specific context. The idea that one can exhibit different qualities of leadership across different situations seems plain in retrospect, almost obvious, but our culture celebrates leaders to a point where the skill is often thought to be universal. For example, some common wisdom would suggest that a good general should make for a good president, because both require strong leadership, at least in theory. However in practice the skillsets required to lead in one context can vary wildly from another. Reflecting on this fact, personally is very freeing. As an individual I'm often looking at past experiences and trying to compare to present, to see how to improve. Across my time at McMaster, I've held leadership positions in several clubs, and often I expect it to go well given my past experiences as a leader. This isn't always the case and has been a source of some personal doubts at times. Having a model of leadership that explains that one can be at different levels of leadership identity development across positions will allow for me to have greater confidence when starting in new contexts. Understanding in what ways I can progress to become more effective is also very useful.



### Planning and Future Practices

​	This workshop is very much one of the things I wanted to get out of this class when I signed up. When I enrolled, I was looking for ways in which I can improve my leadership abilities and apply this to my student society, in order to help it progress. This workshop discussed doing just that with one of the exercises. Going forward I am going to work with our leadership team to refine our values as an organization, and have the subteams work on their own team statements. Having our team all on the same page in terms of values, expectations, and the ways of working will facilitate higher quality in our task activities. While we have previously done maintenance activities, such as establishing values in terms of our brand, we haven't done so in describing what we value in our actual work. Further, with clear values it would be much easier for our organization itself to become a leader, with respect to other clubs across Canada, as we promote and act on events to promote our values as a collective team.

​	Further, for divisions in our society where there are teams working on projects, bringing compassionate leadership into the onboarding would be valuable. As mentioned in the workshop, compassionate leadership is the most effective leadership. We want to provide the best experience for McMaster students, and this is one more way for us to improve through embracing its three components.

### Why did I choose the two categories

I got a lot out of this workshop, and it was my most anticipated one. I chose the personal thoughts and feelings as this is a topic I often reflect on. I am always looking for ways to improve my leadership skills, and taking the time to reflect on the new information and discuss it was valueable to me. On that note, it was valueable to me because it was practical, and can be applied immediately. I want to provide the best experience possible for our club members, and this can only be done when we reflect on what can be improved when presented with new information. This was a good opportunity to do so.
