## Engineer 3CX3

## Mini-Reflection 1 | Marketing and Sponsorship Workshop

Jacob Gordon | 400071013 | gordoj7

### Important Aspects of the Experience

​	The marketing and sponsorship workshop was very useful for me, as it had me consider the relationship between students and prospective sponsors from many different viewpoints. In the past, I had become comfortable viewing the relationship strictly through how to maximize the potential impact for the members of my club. The focus of the relationship now, retrospectively, was about what I could get from them, without regard to what I was offering in turn. This was something considered, but never was a highlight of the discussion. A key take away for me, especially from the portion of the workshop where we roleplayed as student / sponsor, was that is like any relationship: there needs to be give and take. The best way to start a conversation and to differentiate yourself from other student organizations, is to lead with what you can offer to the organization. Creating a mutually beneficial arrangement is a much easier sell. As well, an important thing I got from the discussions with Daniel Picone is the importance of LinkedIn, a personal brand, and leveraging a network.  Daniel Picone showed several usecases for LinkedIn and networking that I hadn't considered before, specifically relying on the alumni network of McMaster, and the alumni network from student organizations that I have been apart of. A key thing that Daniel mentioned that clicked with me, was that others were in my positions once before, and finding those people will give me an advantage, as they'd be more understanding and empathetic of my situation. The considerations of viewpoints like that, on the individual personal level, was something I often lost sight of. When cold-calling employers and institutions, it can be easy to lose sight of the fact that there is a person who has to handle your reply, no matter how robotic or automated the reply can seem. It is a unique opportunity to engage with an indivudal in the organization, and as such, and every aspect of the message is crucial. Taking the time to relate to the individual, or connecting to someone who knows them, can be a great way to make what was at first a non-personal interaction, and provide context as to why the opportunity matters to them.

### Planning and Future Contexts

In the future, I'm definitely going to make use of the information provided by the workshop. Specifically, in Mac AI we prepare sponsorship packages highlighting all of the information of our club, and the benefits of sponsorship. On reflection, it might be most useful to make the inital page of this package the breakdown of benefits to the prospective sponsor, so they know immediately what they're getting into. As well, it will be beneficial to instruct the members of our outreach team on the LinkedIn Alumni feature that Daniel Picone described. Often our society is looking to connect with potential speakers, and knowing how to filter for McMaster alumni easily would be invaluable, as like Daniel said, alumni are much more inclined to give back. Moving forward when creating transition documents for the next year, LinkedIn will be a discussion point for new members of our communication and outreach team. As well, the roleplay activity was very useful in determining if one is prepared enough for a meeting with a sponsor. In the activity, I personally found that the time provided was not enough to have the team on the entire page about all possible discussion with the employer. This led to me being blindsided by some questions, and unsure how to reply in a way that the other students members would expect, without getting any information wrong. This would be a very useful training tool for our team, as well as a good team bonding activity. Helping our members think on their feat in a team setting would be great. LinkedIn tips will also be provided, as the personal brand information from Daniel will be valueable in controlling how potential employers perceive the McMaster AI brand.



### Cause and Effect Relationship

As mentioned previously, one activity from the workshop was the sponsor / student roleplay. This was aimed in practicing pitching to an employer / organization about a student club, in order to acquire a sponsorship for the club. We were given a short amount of time to discuss, with the sponsor preparing questions, and the students preparing a pitch. The activity stuck with me in particular because it demonstrated the importance of preparedness. With only a limited amount of time to prepare, there were moments in the mock presentation where a question would come up that we weren't prepared for. This required one of us to think on our feet and answer the question. However, even if the question was answered well, it may not have been the consensus of the team, and may not have been representative of the goals of the whole team. As well, there was a feeling of uncertainty and anxiety that came with that experience. There is a cause and effect relationship between the amount of time spent preparing, and how thorough that preparation was, with the performance and success of a student sponsorship pitch. The success is a function of preparedness: in order to succeed, one must prepare for as many outcomes as possible. This may seem obvious, but for many student leaders public speaking comes easily to them, and they may be more willing to forego activites that practice it in this manner. However from the activity, it was clear to me that not only is this reliant on public speaking skill, but communication previously with team members. The whole team may be eloquent, and well spoken, but if they are not on the same page, their efforts could even be conflicting with one another. In this cause, the cause is preparedness and communication before a presentation. The effect is proportional to the preparedness. If one wants to succeed, they should work with their team to clearly outline what they want to discuss, the objectives of the meeting, the goals, and the talking points. Its also useful to prepare for a list of potential questions from the sponsor ahead of time, so that noone can be caught off guard during the meeting. 



### Why did I choose the two categories

I chose these two categories as they mapped most closely to my personal notes I took following the workshop. Reviewing my notes from the class, as I was learning the information and the skills from the speakers, I was writing ways to implement them in the McMaster AI Society. Many of the points had stars beside them indicating their importance, with crib notes with ideas on how to implement them. Reflecting on these ideas and their usefulness was very helpful



For the cause and effect relationship, I am someone who is usually very confident as a public speaker. During the roleplay activity, I actually felt nervous when called on some questions we hadn't prepared for. It was something that I usually don't feel when public speaking anymore, and so following the workshop I thought about why, and the possible causes and what I could learn from the experience.  I had already built a model in my head as to the relationship between the time we had to prepare and my confidence in the meeting, but I wanted to explore it further and see how it could be applied in the context of Mac AI and improving sponsorship communications.

